OpenTelemetry Bridge for Logrus (#1036)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/logs-management/send-logs/logrus-to-signoz.mdx

---
date: 2024-12-08
title: OpenTelemetry Bridge for Logrus
id: logrus-to-signoz
---

## Overview

> This guide will teach you how to collect log data from [Logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus) to [SigNoz](https://signoz.io/) using the [OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge (Otellogrus)](https://www.notion.so/Complete-guide-to-implementing-OpenTelemetry-Logrus-Log-Bridge-in-Golang-applications-12b983ed03288007ace3c0bcd379bed6?pvs=4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document explains how to collect log data from [Logrus](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus) and visualise it in [SigNoz](https://signoz.io/).
```

## Prerequisites

> - [Self-hosted SigNoz](https://signoz.io/docs/install/docker/) or [SigNoz cloud account](https://signoz.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - Golang installed. You can download and install it from the official [Go website](https://golang.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A running Golang application
```

> - Familiarity with [Golang Logging](https://signoz.io/guides/golang-log/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Instrument your application with the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

> ### Step 1: Get the sample Golang application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove this step since the user will have their own golang application

```bash
go get \
go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/bridges/otellogrus \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/log \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlplog/otlploghttp \
github.com/sirupsen/logrus
```

### Step 2: Instrument OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge in your Golang application

To instrument your Go application with the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge, add the following code to your golang application `main.go` file.

> ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
```

> ### Step 2: Install dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install dependencies
```

> The next step is to install all the required dependencies to implement the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install all the required dependencies to implement the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge. 
```

> Navigate to the `sample-golang` app root folder and run the following command to install the required dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the root folder of your golang application and run the below command to install the required dependencies.
```

Also explain in a couple of lines about what these dependencies will do

go get \
go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/bridges/otellogrus \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/log \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace \
go.opentelemetry.io/otel/exporters/otlp/otlplog/otlploghttp \
github.com/sirupsen/logrus
```

> ### Step 3: Instrument OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge in your Golang application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Instrument OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge in your Golang application
```

> To instrument your Go application with the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge, add the following code to your sample-golang-app `main.go` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To instrument your Go application with the OpenTelemetry Logrus Log Bridge, add the following code to your golang application `main.go` file.
```

Explain in a couple of lines, what this code is doing.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```golang
```

       // handle error
       log.Fatal(err)
   }

   // create log provider
   log_provider := otel_log.NewLoggerProvider(
       otel_log.WithProcessor(
           otel_log.NewBatchProcessor(logExporter),
       ),
   )

   defer log_provider.Shutdown(context.Background())

   // Create an *otellogrus.Hook and use it in your application.
   hook := otellogrus.NewHook("<signoz-golang>", otellogrus.WithLoggerProvider(log_provider))

   // Set the newly created hook as a global logrus hook
   logrus.AddHook(hook)
   
   ......
}
```

In this code, we initialized an OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) Log provider using the OTLP log exporter and OTLP Batch processor. The OTLP Log provider is then used to create a global Logrus hook using the `otellogrus` package.

### Step 3 (Optional): Inject Trace and Span ID fields to your logs

Trace and span IDs in structured logs provide a way to correlate logs, track requests across services, and diagnose issues effectively. To add the Span and Trace ID fields to your structured logs:

**Import the OpenTelemetry Trace library to your code file**

> ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
```

import (
   "go.opentelemetry.io/otel"
   sdktrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/trace"
   oteltrace "go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)
```

**Fetch current Span and Trace ID from context using the OTLP TracerProvider** 

> ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
```

> ## Inject Trace and Span ID fields to your logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3 (Optional): Inject Trace and Span ID fields to your logs
```

> To add the Span and Trace ID fields to your structured logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the Span and Trace ID fields to your structured logs:
```
Briefly explain in a couple of lines why a user would want to add Span and Trace ID in logs

> ### Step 1: Import the OpenTelemetry Trace library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Import the OpenTelemetry Trace library**
```

Explicilty mentions where this code needs to be added. Clearly mention where these imports will be added.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```golang
```

           sdktrace.WithSampler(sdktrace.AlwaysSample()),
       ),
   )

   tracer := otel.GetTracerProvider().Tracer("signoz-tracer")
   _, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "signoz-tracer")
   defer span.End()
   
```
This code implements an OTLP TracerProvider. The OTLP TracerProvider is responsible for creating Spans which help to trace an operation.

**Create a function to add Span and Trace ID values to your Logrus fields** 

> ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```go
```

> ### Step 2: Fetch the current Span and Trace ID from context with the OpenTelemetry Trace library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Fetch current Span and Trace ID from context**

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```golang
```

>    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>    otel.SetTracerProvider(

Reviewer: Clearly mention where this code needs to be added. Also explain in a couple of lines what will this codeblock do.

       ),
   )

   tracer := otel.GetTracerProvider().Tracer("signoz-tracer")
   _, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "signoz-tracer")
   defer span.End()
   
```

> ### Step 3:  Create a function to add the Span and Trace ID values to your Logrus fields 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Create a function to add Span and Trace ID values to your Logrus fields** 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```golang
```

> func LogrusFields(span oteltrace.Span) logrus.Fields {

Reviewer: Clearly mention where this code needs to be added. Also explain in a couple of lines what will this codeblock do.

To send Logrus logs to your SigNoz cloud account:

1. Add logs to your code.

>     ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```go
```

```

> ## Send Logrus logs to SigNoz 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Send Logrus logs to SigNoz 
```

> <Tabs>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs entityName="plans">
```
This is needed for SaaS and was introduced after this PR was raised.

<TabItem value="cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>

To send Logrus logs to your SigNoz cloud account:

> 1. Add logs to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add logs to your application
```
Clearly explain where should this line of code be added.

Author: logs can be added anywhere.

    ```
    logrus.WithFields(LogrusFields(span)).Info("Logrus logs message")
    ```

> 2. Run your Golang application with your Signoz credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run your Golang application with your SigNoz credentials
```

    ```bash

> 	INSECURE_MODE=false OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS=signoz-access-token=<SIGNOZ_ACCESS_TOKEN> OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<SIGNOZ_OPENTELEMETRY_ENDPOINT> go run main.go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	INSECURE_MODE=false OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_HEADERS=signoz-ingestion-key=<your-ingestion-key> OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=ingest.<region>.signoz.cloud:443 go run main.go
```

>     - Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/)
```

	```

	Input the following values:
	

>     - `<SIGNOZ_ACCESS_TOKEN>`: Your SigNoz cloud ingestion token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Replace `<your-ingestion-key>` with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/).
```

>     - `<SIGNOZ_OPENTELEMETRY_ENDPOINT>`: Your SigNoz cloud ingestion URL. The value is `https://ingest.{region}.signoz.cloud:443` where `{region}` is the choice region in SigNoz cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Set the `<region>` to match your SigNoz Cloud [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
```

Run your Golang application as specified above and wait some minutes for the logs to be sent to your SigNoz cloud dashboard.  You can view the logs in the **Logs** section of your dashboard.
</TabItem>

> 

Reviewer: Add a final output image

>     ```golang

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```go
```

> <TabItem value="self" label="Self-hosted SigNoz">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="self-host" label="Self-hosted SigNoz">
```

To send Logrus logs to your Self-hosted SigNoz dashboard:

> 1. Add logs to your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add logs to your application
```

Clearly explain where should this line of code be added.

    ```
    logrus.WithFields(LogrusFields(span)).Info("Logrus logs message")
    ```

> 2. Run your Golang application with your Signoz credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run your Golang application with your Signoz credentials
```

    ```bash
	INSECURE_MODE=true OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT=<SIGNOZ_OPENTELEMETRY_ENDPOINT> go run main.go
	```

    Change `<SIGNOZ_OPENTELEMETRY_ENDPOINT>` to your SigNoz `otlp` receiver endpoint, change `INSECURE_MODE` to `true` or `false` depending on if your connection is secured or not.

Run your Golang application as specified above and wait some minutes for the logs to be sent to your SigNoz dashboard. You can view the logs in the **Logs** section of your dashboard.
</TabItem>

> 

Reviewer: Please add an output image
